---
title: Upgrading to v3 
description: ""
position: 2.3
category: Installation
---

::callout{color="red" icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle"}
<b>Note:</b> Postal v3 is currently not released but it can be run on your servers by following these instructions. It will be released shortly.
::

::callout{color="orange" icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-circle"}
If you are currently running a version of Postal less than 2.0.0, you should upgrade to v2 before v3.
::

Postal v3 will be released in March 2024 and introduced some changes to way that Postal runs. The noteable changes between v2 and v3 are as follows:

* No need to use RabbitMQ.
* No need to run `cron` or `requeuer` processes. 
* Improved logging.
* Improve configuration management (including the ability to configure with environment variables or a config file).

## Upgrading


To upgrade while in beta testing, you need to specify the `latest` version to the upgrade command.

```bash
cd /opt/postal/install
git pull origin
postal upgrade --version latest
```

## Configuration

Postal v3 introduces a new format for its configuration file. The new configuration file format [can be found in our repository](https://github.com/postalserver/postal/blob/main/doc/config/yaml.yml). 

While v3 is still compatible with configuration from earlier versions but you should change yourr commit to the new format to ensure continued compatibility. Any newly added configuration options are not available in the v1 configuration format.

## RabbitMQ

Once you have upgraded to v3, you can remove any RabbitMQ services you have that solely support your Postal installation.

## Cron & Requeuer Processes

These processes are not required in Postal v3 and should not be running.
